The above manuscript has been reviewed by one of our referees.
Comments from the report appear below.

These comments suggest that the present manuscript is not suitable for
publication in the Physical Review.

Yours sincerely,

Dr. Alin Tirziu
Associate Editor
Physical Review D
Email: prd@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/prd/

NEWS FROM THE PHYSICAL REVIEW JOURNALS

Eight Physical Review journals introduce Letters, retire
Rapid Communications
http://go.aps.org/3pWrlUS

Promoting Inclusive and Respectful Communications
http://go.aps.org/2IU1psq

APS paying all APC fees for fully open access PRX Quantum in 2021
http://go.aps.org/2WjdH0H

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the Referee -- DC12952/Halder
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This paper tries to place the anomalously low brightness temperature
detected by the EDGES 21-cm experiment in the context of a model that
simultaneously includes primordial black holes (PBH),
dark-matter-baryon coupling (DMBC) and interacting dark energy (IDE).

Sadly, this work has major shortcomings which make it not suitable for
publication in PRD. I cannot recommend it for publication.

Broadly, what question are the authors trying to answer and what have
the authors concluded from their study? Are the authors trying to
explain the EDGES anomaly (encapsulated in a single delta_T number)
with a model that includes all three of PBH, DMBC and IDE (with many
free parameters)? Previous works have looked at the influence of each
of these in isolation on the brightness temperature. Do the authors
find that such a combination model is preferred over a simpler
interpretation? Are the authors simply calculating the effects of
three somewhat unrelated new physics models and throwing it into a
calculation, and then loosely translating it into “bounds” on various
sub-parameters? Why is that interesting? Does that tell us anything
about these new physics models in the context of other experimental
constraints on those models? The abstract, results and
summary/discussions sections do not state any of this, so it is
unclear what the major findings or interpretation are and it is
unclear what this paper would contribute to the scientific literature
related to the EDGES anomaly or to the literature on PBH, DMBC or IDE.

The paper simply seems incomplete. As a reader, I am not sure what to
take away from the fact that the authors have solved some coupled
equations and plotted bounds while keeping some parameters fixed at
values that are simply not motivated.
