Ref.:  Ms. No. MPLA-D-20-00011
IceCube PeV Neutrino Events from the Decay of Superheavy Dark Matter; an Analysis
Modern Physics Letters A

Dear Mr. Halder,

Reviewers have now commented on your paper, providing mixed reviews. Comments of reviewer 3 indicate to us that revision would not avail a positive outcome. However, we prefer to withhold the editorial call in case you should disagree with reviewer 3 and be able to give a point-by-point rebuttal.  Hence, the editorial call as of now is Revise. If you are prepared to undertake the work required to respond or revise accordingly, I would be pleased to reconsider my decision. 

For your guidance, reviewer's comments are appended below.

If you decide to revise the work, please submit a list of changes or a rebuttal against each point which is being raised when you submit the revised manuscript. Please also highlight in colour all changes made to the text or type all changes in a coloured font. Failure to do so might result in the manuscript being sent back to the author.

Your revision is due in 30 days.

To submit a revision, go to https://www.editorialmanager.com/mpla/ and log in as an Author.  You will see a menu item - Submission Needing Revision.  You will find your submission record there.

Yours sincerely,
MPLA Editors
WSPC Journal Office
Modern Physics Letters A

Reviewer's comments:

Reviewer #1: The authors have analyzed the IceCube ultra-hight energy events against the hypothesis of superheavy dark matter decay, including both hadronic and leptonic decay channels. The paper is well written and the $\chi^2$-analysis seems solid. However, I would like them to address the following points, before the article could be recommended for publication:

1. They have used the 6-year dataset. Why not use the latest 7.5-year dataset (from Neutrino 2018)? https://zenodo.org/record/1286919#.Xjm1sC2ZOa4

2. There are no events beyond 10 PeV. So why do they include the bins up to 50 PeV in their fit? 

3. There is a small (~2\sigma) excess around 100 TeV and they don't address it.

4. It is not entirely clear to me why the 3 and  4-flavour neutrino analyses look the same in Fig. 7. Some more explanations are needed. 

5. Fig. 1: The \nu_\mu flux shown here is from a throughgoing analysis, which is very different from the HESE analysis (see e.g. 1801.07277). In Figures 2-6, did they also check that their new solutions are compatible with the throughgoing data?

6. Below Eq. (5), the maximum R of 260 kpc seems to be on the larger extreme for the size of Milky Way. A more typical value would be 100 kpc.

7. Superheavy dark matter decay in the context of IceCube was also discussed in 1303.7320 and 1612.05638. Should be included along with their Refs. [6-32]. 

8. p. 2, 2nd paragraph: The possibility of a second component to fit the HESE data was also discussed in 1411.5658 and 1801.07277, which should be cited along with Ref. [35].

9. Eqs. (2) can be moved to an Appendix for better readability of the main text.

10. Why the tau flavor is not considered in Eqs. (2)?

11. Found a few typos:
(a) p. 2: a \chi^2 analyses
(b) Section 5.1: 1.!Range
(c) Ref. 35: Cintributed



Reviewer #3: In this paper has been studied the possibility to fit astrophysical neutrino observed by IceCube by means of a flux coming from heavy decay dark matter on the top of a power law spectrum with parameters taken from IceCube 6-years fit.

I cannot recommend such a paper to be publish because I think it is not sufficiently innovative and is probably misleading for the following motivations:

1)my main objection is that the points above 5 PeV are just exclusion and not observation; this is why the error bars do not have a lower bound.

2)If the authors reproduce the IceCube fit as an exercise, they will understand the point. This kind of exercise is mandatory if one approaches such a field.

3)Once that the fit is corrected, I think that the authors will find a result very similar to most of the already published papers on the same subject. Right now a comparison is missing.

4)Then, the authors have to justify why the paper with a similar result using the same idea of other similar works must be published.
