Re: WJ10050
    IceCube PeV neutrino events from the decay of superheavy dark matter:
    An analysis
    by Madhurima Pandey, Debasish Majumdar, and Ashadul Halder

Dear Madhurima Pandey,

The above manuscript has been reviewed by one of our referees.
Comments from the report appear below.

These comments suggest that the present manuscript is not suitable for
publication in the Physical Review.

Yours sincerely,

Ansar Fayyazuddin
Associate Editor
Physical Review Research
Email: prresearch@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/prresearch/
@PhysRevResearch on Twitter

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the Referee -- WJ10050/Pandey
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The submitted manuscript studies the possible contribution of decaying
heavy dark matter to the high energy neutrino flux observed by the
IceCube experiment. This subject is under active investigation by
several researchers and is one of the main topics in neutrino
astronomy.

Although the subject is scientifically sound, the performed analysis
by the authors is way behind the existing literature on this subject.
There are several studies, for example by Bhattacharya et al and
Chianese et al, doing the same analysis in a much more elaborate and
complete way. First of all, the analysis has to be done for the
“number of events”, and not by using the IceCube published limit of
the flux. The IceCube results apply to the case where the only
contribution is coming from astrophysical sources. In the presence of
dark matter contributions the limits change. Comparing with the
existing analyses by the mentioned groups, what is new in the
submitted manuscript? the authors can consult several papers by the
mentioned groups where they study exactly the same subject, the same
data set, the same theoretical modeling, but by performing a fit of
all of the contributions, taking the branching ratio into account, and
doing the fit for the number of events.

Based on the above points, I do not find the submitted manuscript
appropriate for publication in PRR. The manuscript is written poorly
(there are several typos, wrong statements, several repetitions, etc)
and I do not see any new result from this analysis. In the following I
summarize a few points, but the shortcomings are not limited to this
list.

A few flaws (a complete list would be longer than this):

1- In the first paragraph of introduction the authors write: “...
several neutrino events with energies ranging between few hundred GeV
upto...”. IceCube never reported astrophysical neutrinos with few
hundreds of GeV. The lowest reported energy (though controversial due
to the large background contamination) is 1 TeV, in the cascade
dataset, not in HESE.

2- The possibility of GRBs being the source of IceCube neutrinos is
mentioned in the introduction, along with ref [36]. This possibility
is completely ruled out now.

3- In the introduction: “the event data at IceCube for the neutrino
energies greater than 20 TeV are categorized as high energy starting
event (HESE) data”. This is not the definition of HESE dataset and in
none of the updates on this dataset does the energy go to 20 TeV.

4- Above 5 PeV, there are no observed events. The reported points by
IceCube are upper limits. Using these values as in Table 1 (although
there is a typo there also, it should be 10^-9, etc) is meaningless.

5- A long section, with several formulae, is written about neutrino
oscillations; decoherent oscillation and something well-known in the
literature. And at the end, the authors just take the 1:1:1 flux ratio
between the flavors. What is the point of writing and discussing
neutrino oscillations?

6- The authors claim that they performed a MC to calculate the EW
corrections, citing ref [54]. Which code has been used? what is the
neutrino flux that they obtain?

7- The astrophysical flux is fixed to Eq. (3) and (4). But these are
fits obtained by IceCube assuming that the only contribution to the
observed neutrinos is from astrophysical power-law flux. In the
presence of a new contribution, here the dark matter, these fits will
change both in normalization and index. Using Eq. (3) and (4) in the
fit is meaningless; one has to perform a fit including the
normalization and index as free parameters (and on the number of
events, not the flux).

8- The authors assume leptonic and hadronic decay channels for dark
matter. What is the branching ratio? Dark matter cannot decay to both
channels with 100% branching ratio! And within leptonic and hadronic
channels, each sub-channel has a different spectral feature: light
quarks, b quark, top quark, neutrinos, gauge bosons, Higgs, e, mu,
tau. Each of these channels has a different neutrino flux.

As I mentioned, the list can continue with several more items. All in
all, the submitted manuscript does not match the criteria of
publication in PRR.
